/v/ wordswordswords

The project itself was inspired by an art piece by, whom I have christened, 'grim mymy' where mymy is shooting up a school. Besides the immediate comedic value, the longer I looked at it the more it invoked terror. Our little mymy murdering her classmates, bloody eyed without a hint of humanity in her.
>pretentious fag
Be that as it may, the feeling gripped me and I had a desire to replicate it, elevate it even, in the only way I know how: Making a video game.

As the game development started the idea shifted slightly, with a vision resembling HATRED, a supremely edgy experience leaking into what is basically an absurdist comedy. To make it purposefully so dark as to be laughed at. However during development the game took it's own shape, sort of looped back around to it's original vision. A simply grim experience, quiet and atmospheric, bone chilling and slowburn. The steps breaking the deafening silence, the gunshot striking like a lightning. Even the aspect ratio facilitating an uneasy, claustrophobic atmosphere. Indeed, to no one did it come off as funny. Interestingly I cannot say it had the same effect on me, as from my perspective I didn't see the same game. I only saw embellished jank, to my eyes the characters were still just circles running algorithms. So I was pleasantly surprised to learn it left a potent impression on others.

There are, however, things that break the atmosphere of the game, chief amongst them people not playing as I want them to. What kind of psychopath starts shooting all the students right after shooting vera? No time to contemplate, being frozen in horror for a moment or two? We didn't make alternative death sprites for being killed while running, you're just making the game look bad! Speaking of game looking bad, still keeping me up at night is the fact that in the debut build I left an audible "audio jungle" watermark on the gunshot sound. How? I developed the game while using some shitty old speakers, it was inaudible on my end, and the gunshot was recycled from some old project, it was a meshup of a gunshot and thunder (kino) I didn't realize I hadn't removed the watermark. The poor mixing you can blame on me having loudness equalization turned on. The sound issues should all be fixed with this build albeit.

I didn't make the game on my own of course, I am artistically incompetent and needed someone to fill in the niche. Luckily for me, Zoot (or as some may know him as, biohazardmaker) offered to help with art (And if anyone else is interested in working with me in the future you can reach out to me through retardincel@protonmail.com). As slow as he was (transforming a multiweek project into a multimonth one) I appreciate him greatly, this game would not have been possible without his assitance, not to even mention hosting the game on his website. We did have our disagreements, probably the most memorable one being the black text on the scorescreen (if you were there for the short newgrounds presence you know what I'm talking about) and other ideas I had to shut down because they exceeded the scope of the project. One thing he suggested that I implemented was kiki brandishing and dropping her knife, which turned out to be my favorite little detail in the game.

Another suggestion by Zoot was to add the cone (or circle) of vision effect. I wasn't planning on adding this because I had already tried it once before and failed, but I decided to give it another try because he made a compelling point: the seeking isn't as fun if you can see them through the walls. It was a giant pain in the ass, basically what I did at the end was I copy pasted the entire school layout 50 meters to the right, painted the whole thing black, and inserted a bright-as-sun light into this "phantom school". The light follows the player with an offset of 50 meters and another camera captures the light and shadows to then put into a black and white texture, I then use that texture to mask out the students. What a pain in the ass that was to figure out.

The life it had on newgrounds was short lived, and as much as I'd like to cry out how I dindu nuffin and they can't take a bit of edge, the game was likely removed due to breaking their rules about external API calls (that I didn't read). Not that we can know since they never informed me of anything, the mannerless pricks. But perhaps it's for the best, as the clueless retards on newgrounds were starting to take a toll on my psyche with their dribble. "oh the text cant be black on a dark background!" Yes it can, it's cearly readable, the color conveys emotions, it has to be black on red and it has to be on the bottom, not a scorescreen to celebrate but merely a footnote of your crimes. As I said there, leave it to these slaves to principles to suck the soul out of art. Comparisons included in the folder if you think I'm just off my meds.

As everyone knows the debut was done on the zarty, on 2/9/2024, which was a friday afternoon (euro hours) as I figured that would be the most active time on the site and thus best to release it. And released it was, quetly, with no announcement, no one even knew about the project. It was dropped out of the blue, just quietly added to the top bar. Not that it stopped people from finding it within 3 damn minutes. Ironically, it was someone from /co/ that set the world record to be just over 2 and a half minutes. I actually wanted to implement some light datamining regarding people's preformance (final time, order of killing etc.) but Zoot was against it. Overal a success and I hope it's kept on the website for as long as it's online. 

The name "/v/" itself wasn't planned, in fact the project didn't have a name for most of it's life. The folder for the recourses I named mymy, and the unity project was designated simply as "zellig". When it came to giving it a name for newgrounds I just went with mymy's schoolocaust. But on the zarty everyone took to calling it /v/ (obviously, as that's where it was located) I am glad this was the case, I find it delightful, much better than anything I could've conjured up.

And to whoever is making a "deep dive into the disturbing rabbithole of the ongezellig community" in some 10 odd years, you can just dub me Spas.